# P005 - Smallest Multiple
We're asked to find the smallest integer that is a multiple of all integers from 1 to 20.
For the integers from 1 to 10, it's 2520. We can use this knowledge to test our algorithm.

Before we're going to reason about the solution, let's generalise the model a bit.
Instead of finding the smallest integer that is a multiple of all integers from 1 to 20, let's take it from 1 to `n`.

## First approach
My initial thoughts were to simply start at the bottom and then work our way up, checking if the current number can be divided by all integers from 1 to `n`.
To save our device from having to do a lot of computations, though, we can start at `n` instead of 1, and have increments of `n` instead of 1.
And don't divide by 1!

What I consider to be the intuitive approach that uses Python functions (using `all()`) is really slow.
Just by manually programming the `all()` functionality, I managed to more than double the algorithm speed.

## Faster method
There is a faster method, however. Way faster, I should say.
Instead of looping through all numbers from `n` to who-knows-where, we can sort of "reverse" the process.
We'll set some value `v` to 1. Then we'll loop over all values from 1 to `n`, call it `x`.
Whenever `v` is not divisible by `x`, we're entering another loop from 1 to `n`, call it `y`.
We then check if `n * y` is divisible by `x`, and if it is, we save the multiplication and break out of the `y` loop.
Try it out on paper with `n = 10` to confirm this approach works.

I wish I could take credit for this approach, but I must admit that I was stuck at my 1.7 s solution and did not see any ways to improve,
so I handed it in and found this very elegant solution in the thread.

## Mathematical reasoning
After having submitted my answer, I saw someone else had uploaded a mathematical reasoning to the problem; no code needed.
You can compute the prime factorisation of each number from 1 to 20, take the largest power of each prime, and multiply those together.
For example, you don't need to include 8 (= `2^3`) because you can include 16 (`=2^4`, which also accounts for `2^3`, a.k.a. 8).
